# koopa(1) - shell bootloader for data science

## SYNOPSIS

`koopa` <command> [options] [args...]

## DESCRIPTION

koopa is a shell bootloader for data science that manages installation,
configuration, and updates of command-line applications and libraries.

## GLOBAL OPTIONS

* `--help`, `-h`:
  Show help. Place after a command to view command-specific help.

* `--version`, `-V`:
  Print version information.

* `--verbose`:
  Enable verbose output.

## COMMANDS

### Package management

* `install` <app>...:
  Install one or more applications.

* `reinstall` <app>...:
  Reinstall applications, with optional reverse dependency rebuilds.

* `uninstall` [<app>...]:
  Remove installed applications. Defaults to uninstalling koopa itself.

* `update` [<app>...]:
  Update applications to latest versions. Defaults to updating koopa.

* `configure` <app>...:
  Run post-install configuration for applications.

### Utility commands

* `app` <subcommand>:
  Application-specific utilities (e.g. `koopa app salmon quant`).

* `system` <subcommand>:
  System information, prefix lookups, and administration commands.

* `develop` <subcommand>:
  Developer and maintenance utilities.

* `internal` <subcommand>:
  Internal low-level utilities (not intended for direct use).

* `version`:
  Print koopa version.

* `header`:
  Print path to the shell script header file, for use with `source`.

* `install-all-apps`:
  Install all registered applications.

* `install-default-apps`:
  Install the default set of applications.

## INSTALL OPTIONS

* `--bootstrap`:
  Bootstrap mode (minimal dependency resolution).

* `--no-dependencies`:
  Skip dependency installation.

* `--private`:
  Install from private sources.

* `--reinstall`:
  Force reinstall even if already installed.

* `--system`:
  Install in system mode.

* `--user`:
  Install in user mode.

* `-D` <arg>:
  Pass additional arguments through to the installer. Can be repeated.

## REINSTALL OPTIONS

* `--all-revdeps`:
  Reinstall the specified apps and all of their reverse dependencies.

* `--only-revdeps`:
  Reinstall only the reverse dependencies, not the specified apps.

## UNINSTALL / UPDATE / CONFIGURE OPTIONS

* `--system`:
  Operate in system mode.

* `--user`:
  Operate in user mode.

## SYSTEM SUBCOMMANDS

* `system check`:
  Run system dependency version checks.

* `system info`:
  Show system information.

* `system prefix` [<name>]:
  Print the installation prefix for koopa or a named application.

* `system version` <name>:
  Print the installed version of an application.

* `system which` <name>:
  Print the real path of an application.

* `system list` <subcommand>:
  List system information. Subcommands: `app-versions`, `dotfiles`,
  `launch-agents`, `path-priority`, `programs`.

* `system prune-apps`:
  Remove stale application versions.

* `system update-tex-packages`:
  Update TeX Live packages via `tlmgr`.

* `system hostname`:
  Print the system hostname.

* `system os-string`:
  Print the operating system identifier string.

* `system switch-to-develop`:
  Switch koopa installation to the development branch.

* `system test`:
  Run koopa test suite.

* `system delete-cache`:
  Delete koopa cache files.

* `system enable-passwordless-sudo`:
  Enable passwordless sudo for the current user.

* `system disable-passwordless-sudo`:
  Disable passwordless sudo for the current user.

### macOS-specific system subcommands

* `system clean-launch-services`:
  Clean the macOS Launch Services database.

* `system create-dmg`:
  Create a DMG disk image.

* `system enable-touch-id-sudo`:
  Enable Touch ID for sudo authentication.

* `system disable-touch-id-sudo`:
  Disable Touch ID for sudo authentication.

* `system flush-dns`:
  Flush the DNS cache.

* `system force-eject`:
  Force eject a mounted volume.

* `system ifactive`:
  Show active network interfaces.

* `system reload-autofs`:
  Reload the autofs automount daemon.

* `system spotlight` <query>:
  Search using Spotlight.

### Linux-specific system subcommands

* `system fix-sudo-setrlimit-error`:
  Fix the sudo setrlimit error on Linux.

* `system zsh-compaudit-set-permissions`:
  Fix Zsh compaudit permissions.

## DEVELOP SUBCOMMANDS

* `develop log`:
  View the latest temporary log file.

* `develop cache-functions`:
  Regenerate the cached Bash function library.

* `develop edit-app-json`:
  Open `app.json` in the default editor.

* `develop format-app-json`:
  Sort and format `app.json`.

* `develop push-app-build`:
  Push a single application build to the binary cache.

* `develop push-all-app-builds`:
  Push all application builds to the binary cache.

* `develop prune-app-binaries`:
  Remove stale application binaries from the cache.

* `develop roff`:
  Regenerate man pages from ronn source files.

## COPYRIGHT

This software is provided under the GNU General Public License v3.0.
See `LICENSE` file for details.
