.TH FASTQ-LANEPOOL 1 2019-12-02 Bash
.SH NAME
fastq-lanepool \-
Pool (concatenate) lane-split FASTQ files




    [--source-dir="${source_dir}"] [--target-dir="${target_dir}"]
    [--prefix="${prefix}"]


required arguments with defaults:
    --source-dir
        Source directory path containing lane-split FASTQ files.
        Defaults to '${source_dir}'.
    --target-dir
        Target directory path where to return concatenated, lane-pooled FASTQs.
        Defaults to '${target_dir}'.
    --prefix
        Name prefix for concatenated FASTQ files.
        Defaults to '${prefix}'.


details:
    Matches against '_L00[1-9]_' lane pattern internally.
    Defaults to input and output in current working directory.
    Supports both compressed (*.fastq.gz) and decompressed (.fastq) FASTQ files.

examples:
    ## Input (2 paired-end, lane-split samples):
    ls *.fastq.gz
    ## > sample1_L001_R1.fastq.gz
    ## > sample1_L002_R1.fastq.gz
    ## > sample1_L003_R1.fastq.gz
    ## > sample1_L004_R1.fastq.gz
    ## > sample1_L001_R2.fastq.gz
    ## > sample1_L002_R2.fastq.gz
    ## > sample1_L003_R2.fastq.gz
    ## > sample1_L004_R2.fastq.gz
    ## > sample2_L001_R1.fastq.gz
    ## > sample2_L002_R1.fastq.gz
    ## > sample2_L003_R1.fastq.gz
    ## > sample2_L004_R1.fastq.gz
    ## > sample2_L001_R2.fastq.gz
    ## > sample2_L002_R2.fastq.gz
    ## > sample2_L003_R2.fastq.gz
    ## > sample2_L004_R2.fastq.gz

    ## Pool the samples.
    fastq-lanepool --source-dir="." --target-dir="." --prefix="lanepool"

    Output:
    ## > lanepool_sample1_R1.fastq.gz
    ## > lanepool_sample1_R2.fastq.gz
    ## > lanepool_sample2_R1.fastq.gz
    ## > lanepool_sample2_R2.fastq.gz

note:
    Bash script.
    Updated 2019-10-23.
