.TH KOOPA 1 2019-12-02 Bash
.SH NAME
koopa \-
Shell bootloader for bioinformatics
.SH OPTIONS
.SH Unix standard (general)
.TP
.B \-\-help, \-h
Show this help message and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-version, \-V
Version information.
.SS System configuration
.TP
.B check
Run system dependency version checks.
.TP
.B develop
Switch koopa installation to developer mode.
.TP
.B info
Show system information.
.TP
.B list
List programs accessible in 'PATH'.
.TP
.B update
Update koopa installation to latest version.
Run with '\fB--system\fP' flag to also update the system configuration.
.SS Character string return
.TP
.B app-prefix
Application installation prefix.
Refers to applications that don't need to be build using \fBmake\fP, and can be installed on an external disk, for space-constrained virtual machines.
Defaults to '/n/opt/' (with external disk) or '/usr/local/opt' (without external disk) on most machines.
.TP
.B config-prefix
User-specific local configuration prefix.
Defined inside 'XDG_CONFIG_HOME' at 'koopa', following recommended XDG configuration.
.TP
.B header
Shell script header file path.
Can be passed to \fBsource\fP inside external shell scripts.
Useful for experimental scripts that are not currently saved inside koopa.
.TP
.B host-id
General platform identifier string.
Intended for identification of cloud platforms, such as 'aws' (Amazon Web Services), 'azure' (Microsoft Azure), or 'gcp' (Google Cloud Platform).
.TP
.B local-app-prefix
Local application prefix.
Defaults to 'XDG_DATA_HOME' on most machines.
.TP
.B make-prefix
Prefix for cellarized \fBmake\fP scripts.
Defaults to '/usr/local/' on most machines.
.TP
.B os-string
Operating system identifier string.
Returns OS name and version, separated by a hyphen.
Example: 'ubuntu-18' for Ubuntu 18 LTS or 'rhel-8' for RHEL 8.
.TP
.B prefix
Return the koopa installation path prefix.
Also stored as 'KOOPA_PREFIX' environment variable.
.TP
.B r-home
R installation prefix (R_HOME).
.TP
.B variable
Internal koopa configuration variable.
Recommended for use in Python and R scripts only.
.SH COPYRIGHT
This software is provided under an MIT License.
See 'LICENSE' file for details.
